In this section, we're going to cover a topic that's essential to understand if you want to be able
to drive a consistent stream of free traffic to your website every single day.
And that is SEO, which is shorthand for search engine optimization.
Most websites rely on search engines like Google as a primary driver of traffic.
And as I'm sure you know from firsthand experience, if not as a publisher than as a user.
The difference between appearing on page one and page two can mean the difference between hundreds of
thousands or even millions of impressions, page views and potential leads and sales.
And it's even competitive on page one.
A study by Karateka found that the number one result on Google gets a whopping thirty two point five
percent of the traffic, with the second result getting seventeen point six percent.
And it just declines from there.
When you get down to the tenth result, you're only looking at two point four percent of the traffic
for that particular search term.
So it's easy to see why search engine optimization or SEO is such a hot topic.
If you want to maximize your exposure in the search results, you need to make sure your site is following
all the best practices that Google and other search engines have come to expect.
Now, whenever I talk about SEO, I like to preface my advice with the fact that there are a ton of
shady SEO tactics out there, but I'm not a fan of those and we're not going to cover them in this course.
You see my philosophy, not just an SEO, but in all of marketing is one of long term value.
I think you'll gain a lot more by playing the long game and focusing on the quality of your content
than by employing spammy short term tactics that may come back to haunt you in the future.
Let me give you an example.
Years ago, sleazy marketers realized they could get a lot of back links, which are kind of the currency
of SEO by going to thousands of random blogs and leaving incoherent comments with links back to their
sites that actually worked for a while.
But eventually Google got wise and penalized all of them.
Well, at the time, I was the editor of a popular tech blog that had been absolutely ravaged by these
spammy comments.
And I started getting emails from companies begging me, even offering money in some cases to remove
the spam comments their old CEO agency had left on their behalf because those links were now negatively
impacting their search rankings.
Please don't make that mistake.
SEO is a long term game.
You can get plenty of back links by earning them over time and doing other kinds of legitimate promotion.
If you feel the need to game the system, you're content probably isn't good enough, so you should
focus on fixing that first.
What we are going to cover in this section is on Site SEO that is optimizing your site's code and content
to maximize your visibility on Google and other search engines.
There are a wide variety of factors that influence your search rankings and you can't control all of
them.
But it's important to optimize the things you can control to put yourself in a position to succeed.
That's what this section of the course is about.